# WhatDrivesCarPrice

In this exercise, a dataset comprised of 426K cars and their respective 18 features were analyzed to assess which had the strongest influence on a car's price. A few of the features, such as 'year' and 'odometer', were numerical in nature. However, a majority of the car features were categorical including features such as 'paint color', 'manufacturer', 'type' and more. This exercise showcases the application of the CRISP-DM framework in the understanding, preparing, and modeling of a dataset to ultimately evaluate and deploy recommendations based on the modeled findings. The aim of this exercise is to derive insight for car dealers as to what features drive car price so that they may better understand what customers value in a used car. 

We start with understanding the data. As mentioned, a vast majority of the features were categorical in nature. This presented a challenge in that rendering 'dummy' variables for each category would yield a exponentially more feaures and overcomplicate our model. However, in running summary statistics on our dataset, we find that each categorical feature has 3 or 4 top categories that bear a majority of the observations. With this, we can drastically reduce the number of categories in each feature. We implimented this 'recategorization' practice for the car color, type, and manufacturer. This brought feature from dozens or hundreds of categories down to 4 or 5.

Summary statistics shined a light on the degree of missing data. Features like 'drive', 'condition', 'cylinders', and 'size', all bore greater than 30% of missing data. While potentially useful, the categorical nature of each feature made it near impossible to implement 'replacement' practices like one would employ with means on numerical features. For the sake of preserving the feasiblity of this study, these features were removed. 

After the data was 'cleaned', we split the data into two subsets meant for training and testing our models. Three seperate regression models were trained and tested in this exercise: linear, ridge, and lasso. To evaluate the quality of each model, root mean squared error (RMSE) and R_squared (R2) values were calculated for each model. RMSE was meant to indicate how the model performed against the test data with the lowest RSMSE being the desirable outcome. R2 indicates how much of the variation in price was captured by the analyzed features, a useful figure to communicate to our audience (the car dealers) that we've considered as much of the inputs as possible. 

We found that the linear and ridge models produced comparable results to each other and vastly better results than the lasso model. Both linear and ridge generated RMSEs of 0.83 and R2s of 31%. Lasso generated an RMSE of 0.99 and an abismally low R2. With an R2 of 31%, we can confidently say we've accounted for 31% of the variation in price with the features we've analyzed. With the comparable RMSEs and R2s, we can move forth with the linear model for ease of interpretation. 

Before we may make suggestions based on our model, we must first understand how to interpret each features' coefficent. For numerical values, such as 'vehicle age', the coefficient is simply added or subtracted for each additoinal unit change of that variable. For categorical features, such as color, the interpretation is slightly different. We assign a coefficient to each 'bucket' under that feature category. The coefficeints of which are all benchmarked to one of the corresponding feature's options. For example, we recategorized color into the top three colors (black, white, silver), other and missing. 'Black' is the benchmark for the color feature as it is the only option missing. Therefore, when we see a coefficient of -0.17 for 'Silver', -0.02 for 'White', and a -0.14 for 'Other', we can confidently say that 'Black' is the highest valued color followed closely by 'White'. Armed with these feature coefficients, we are prepared to make a recommendation to our car dealers. As they prepare to address their inventory, we can recommend the following feautures to ensure they stock the most valued cars.

Armed with this data, we can confidently recommend that our client car dealers focus on stockind and selling cars with these features as customers will inherently value them above other iterations. Trucks are the most valued vehicle type. Chevrolet and Ford are the top two valued brands. Black and White are the top two prefered colors. Deisel bares the highest value for the feul type and manual transmission seem to be valued over automatic. Interestingly, vehicle age showed a preference for older cars, although I wouldn't recommend very old or antique. In conclusion, the car delears should look to stock Chevy and Ford trucks in Black and White with diesel fuel and manual transmissions that aren't too new. This vehicl profile will drive the highest precieved value for their respective clientele.
